{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 The two variables most correlated with better passing rates are school size and school type. Schools that had less than 2500 students had overall passing rates near 90%, whereas schools with more than 2500 students did much worse with passing rates 53-54%. However, as with most data analysis, we are limited in what we can infer by these correlations as it\'92s difficult to infer causality. The fact that smaller schools tended to better than the larger schools might not have anything to do with their size. Instead, as you can see from the school summary table, smaller schools were more likely to be charters. So the strength of the correlation between size and passing rates could be explained by the smaller schools in the dataset being charters. \
\
When looking at the correlation between school type, it is almost identical to the size comparison. District schools had an average overall passing rate of 53.67% and charters had an average of 90.43%. Proponents of charter schools might look at this data and infer that charters do a better job of preparing their students for testing. However, we once again can\'92t establish causality based on this data alone. It is possible that charter schools offer a better quality of education, which can explain their better passing rates. However, another possibility could be that charters, unlike district schools, often do not take students with special needs or ELL students, and they have more flexibility in which students they keep. So, it\'92s plausible that their higher passing rate could be caused by the students they choose to enroll and keep, rather than the quality of education they provide.}